[Inductor] [Doc] Add debugging document for inductor cpu backend (#2430)
pytorch/tutorials: intermediate_source/inductor_debug_cpu.rst

If a model has several graphs, the first step is to compare the final outputs of FX graph and output code for each graph, given the same input. The target is to find the first graph occurring error or with different outputs. Binary search is suggested to use for efficiency.

When a model has only one graph or the problematic graph has been found with the above step, compare the intermediate outputs of FX graph and output code in each graph, given the same input. The idea is to continuously narrow down the problem.

For example, we modify the ``neg`` function like this.

.. code-block:: python

	def neg(x):
	    return f"decltype({x})(2 * {x})"

An accuracy problem would be raised as follows.

.. code:: shell

	torch._dynamo.utils: [ERROR] Accuracy failed: allclose not within tol=0.0001
	Traceback (most recent call last):
	  File "test_script.py", line 18, in <module>
	    assert same(expected_result, actual_result) == True
	AssertionError

By comparing the intermediate outputs of FX graph and output code, it would be found that outputs are already different after doing ``torch.neg``.

Specifically, the modifications of FX graph and output code are attached.

> *Change of FX graph*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Change of the FX graph:**
```

.. code-block:: python

	# Before
	class Repro(torch.nn.Module):
	    def __init__(self):
	        super().__init__()
	
	    def forward(self, arg0_1, arg1_1):
	        neg = torch.ops.aten.neg.default(arg0_1);  arg0_1 = None
	        maximum = torch.ops.aten.maximum.default(arg1_1, neg);  arg1_1 = neg = None
	        clone = torch.ops.aten.clone.default(maximum);  maximum = None
	        return (clone,)
	
	# After
	class Repro(torch.nn.Module):
	    def __init__(self):
	        super().__init__()
	    
	    def forward(self, arg0_1, arg1_1):
	        neg = torch.ops.aten.neg.default(arg0_1);  arg0_1 = None
	        return (neg,)

> *Change of output code*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Changes of the output code:**
```

	            out_ptr0[static_cast<long>(i0)] = tmp3;
	        }
	    }
	}
	''')
	
	def call(args):
	    arg0_1, arg1_1 = args
	    args.clear()
	    buf0 = empty_strided((8390, ), (1, ), device='cpu', dtype=torch.int64)
	    cpp_fused_cat_maximum_neg_0(c_void_p(arg1_1.data_ptr()), c_void_p(arg0_1.data_ptr()), c_void_p(buf0.data_ptr()))
	    del arg0_1
	    del arg1_1
	    return (buf0, )
	
	# After
	cpp_fused_cat_maximum_neg_0 = async_compile.cpp('''
	#include "/tmp/torchinductor_root/gv/cgv6n5aotqjo5w4vknjibhengeycuattfto532hkxpozszcgxr3x.h"
	extern "C" void kernel(const long* in_ptr0,
	                       const long* in_ptr1,
	                       long* out_ptr0)
	{
	    {
	        auto tmp1 = in_ptr1[static_cast<long>(0L)];
	        auto tmp2 = decltype(tmp1)(2 * tmp1);
	        out_ptr0[static_cast<long>(0L)] = tmp2;
	    }
	}
	''')
	
	def call(args):
	    arg0_1, arg1_1 = args
	    args.clear()
	    buf0 = empty_strided((1, ), (1, ), device='cpu', dtype=torch.int64)
	    cpp_fused_cat_maximum_neg_0(c_void_p(arg1_1.data_ptr()), c_void_p(arg0_1.data_ptr()), c_void_p(buf0.data_ptr()))
	    del arg0_1
	    del arg1_1
	    return (buf0, )

> Note that there exists a debugging tool provided by PyTorch, called `Minifier <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/dynamo/troubleshooting.html>`_. It helps us automatically generate a minified problematic graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the PyTorch debugging tool called `Minifier <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/dynamo/troubleshooting.html>`_. It helps to automatically generate a minified problematic graph.
```

Performance profiling
--------------

> For this part, we are going to describe how to analyze torchinductor model performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this part, we will describe how to analyze the TorchInductor model performance.
```

    # init an eager model
    eager_model = T5ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained("t5-small")
    seq_length = 1024
    bs = 4
    vocab_size = model.config.vocab_size
    input = torch.randint(0, vocab_size, (bs, seq_length), dtype=torch.int64)
    input_dict = {"input_ids": input}
    input_dict["decoder_input_ids"] = input
    # init inductor model
    inductor_model = torch.compile(model)
    compiled(**input_dict)
    eager_t = 0
    inductor_t = 0
    for _ in range(100):
        model(**input_dict)
    for _ in range(1000):
        eager_start = time.time()
        model(**input_dict)
        eager_end = time.time()
        eager_t += eager_end - eager_start

    for _ in range(100):
        model(**input_dict)
    for _ in range(1000):
        inductor_start = time.time()
        compiled(**input_dict)
        inductor_end = time.time()
        inductor_t += inductor_end - inductor_start

    print(model.__class__)
    print("eager use:", eager_t)
    print("inductor use:", inductor_t)
    print("ratio:", eager_t / inductor_t)
        
Output:

.. code-block:: shell

    eager use: 410.12550354003906
    inductor use: 478.59081745147705
    ratio: 0.8569439458198976

> We see inductor model spent more time than eager model, which does not meet our expectation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We see that the inductor model execution time is longer than the eager model, which does not meet our expectation.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from torch._inductor import config
    config.cpp.enable_kernel_profile = True

Following the steps in `Pytorch Profiler <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/recipes/recipes/profiler_recipe.html>`_
we are able to get the profiling table and trace files.

.. code-block:: python

    from torch.profiler import profile, schedule, ProfilerActivity
    my_schedule = schedule(
        skip_first=10,
        wait=5,
        warmup=5,
        active=1,
        repeat=5)

    def trace_handler(p):
        output = p.key_averages().table(sort_by="self_cpu_time_total", row_limit=20)
        print(output)
        p.export_chrome_trace(RESULT_DIR + "/" + str(p.step_num) + ".json")

    for _ in range(nwarmup):
        model(**input_dict)

    total = 0
    with profile(
        activities=[ProfilerActivity.CPU],
        schedule=my_schedule,
        on_trace_ready=trace_handler
    ) as p:
        for _ in range(100):
            begin = time.time()
            model(**input_dict)
            end=time.time()
            total += (end - begin)
            p.step()
    print("latency: {} ms".format(1000*(total)/100))

> We will get following profile tables for eager model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will get the following profile tables for eager model:
```

                aten::pow         0.61%       2.520ms         0.61%       2.554ms      79.812us            32  
            aten::matmul         0.50%       2.067ms        56.53%     235.132ms       1.768ms           133  
            aten::select         0.22%     900.000us         0.22%     910.000us     113.750us             8  
                aten::log         0.18%     740.000us         0.18%     740.000us     370.000us             2  
        aten::_unsafe_view         0.17%     718.000us         0.17%     718.000us       3.840us           187  
                aten::sum         0.17%     715.000us         0.20%     831.000us      25.969us            32  
            aten::transpose         0.15%     642.000us         0.18%     741.000us       3.963us           187  
            aten::reshape         0.15%     622.000us         3.66%      15.241ms      88.098us           173  
                aten::fill_         0.15%     613.000us         0.15%     613.000us      15.718us            39  
    -----------------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  
    Self CPU time total: 415.949ms

> And get above table for inductor model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, get the table for the inductor model:
```

                    {
                        #pragma omp declare reduction(+:at::vec::Vectorized<float>:omp_out += omp_in) initializer(omp_priv={{0}})
                        float tmp_acc0 = 0;
                        auto tmp_acc0_vec = at::vec::Vectorized<float>(tmp_acc0);
                        for(long i1=static_cast<long>(0L); i1<static_cast<long>(1024L); i1+=static_cast<long>(16L))
                        {
                            auto tmp0 = at::vec::Vectorized<float>::loadu(in_out_ptr0 + static_cast<long>(i1 + (1024L*i0)));
                            tmp_acc0_vec += tmp0;
                        }
                        tmp_acc0 += at::vec::vec_reduce_all<float>([](at::vec::Vectorized<float>& x, at::vec::Vectorized<float>&y) {return x + y;}, tmp_acc0_vec);
                        out_ptr1[static_cast<long>(i0)] = tmp_acc0;
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ''')

With the kernel name ``cpp_fused__softmax_*`` and considering the profile 
results together, we may suspect the generated code for ``softmax`` is
inefficient. We encourage you to report an issue with all you findings above.

Future work
--------------

> Implement and up-stream the debug tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement and upstream the debug tools
```

	1. **Graph merger**: Merge graphs of a model into a single large graph. Thus, graphs can be compared quickly between different versions of PyTorch. `#102958 <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/102958>`_

> 	2. **Graph matching**: In order to know what each kernel does, this tool matches cpp kernel with FX graph operators and adds corresponding operators before each kernel in cpp output code. `#102958 <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/102958>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	2. **Graph matching**: In order to know what each kernel does, this tool matches C++ kernel with FX graph operators and adds corresponding operators before each kernel in the ``.cpp`` output code. `#102958 <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/102958>`_
```
